#summary Whatto do if Power8 doesn't run on Windows 7.

= Introduction =

There were some reports about issues on Windows 7 where Power8 didn't run correctly. The hack-fix was implemented in version 1.4.1, but it requires manual activation. This page is about how to use it to fix the issue.

= Symptoms = 

Power8 crashes right on start-up, or it crashes when you hover the main button with mouse. The exception message is quite big, and it starts with the following:

`System.NullReferenceException: Object reference not set to an instance of an object. ---> System.ArithmeticException: Overflow or underflow in the arithmetic operation.`

`   at System.Double.Equals(Object obj)`

Examples can be found here: [https://code.google.com/p/power8/issues/detail?id=9 Issue 9].

= Cause =

This is not an issue in Power8. The issue is caused by not identified 3rd-party component that interferes correct FPU-based calculation of Power8 UI elements sizes.

This issue has been seen for some time in the Internet, for example, here: [http://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/wpf/thread/a31f9c7a-0e15-4a09-a544-bec07f0f152c]

= Solution =

Power8 tries to utilize same fpureset() approach discussed at the page linked above. However since the solution is based on dynamic DLL load and method binding, this can be a performance hit, so hack is disabled by default.

To activate and use it:

 # Ensure *any* of these is installed in your system. If none - install last one:
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=5582 C++ 2008 x86]
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=2092 C++ 2008 x64]
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=8328 C++ 2010 x86]
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=13523 C++ 2010 x64]
  * [http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=30679 C++ 2012]
 # Open Power8.exe.config file in Power8 installation directory with notepad;
 # Find setting `TryFpResetBeforeUiCtors` and set it's `Value` to `True` (by default it's `False`);
 # Save file and start Power8.

NOTE: if Power8 will fail loading DLL from packages mentioned above, it will save a flag telling that this hack should be ultimately disabled. There will be no easy way then to clear this flag. So: *DO NOT TRY TO USE HACK IF YOU DID NOT INSTALL C++ PACKAGES BEFORE*.